[Music]
ever since its debut in the arcades the
soul Series has managed to successfully
establish itself as one of the defining
weapons-based fighting games with broken
Destiny on the PSP it marked the first
time the franchise had appeared on
handheld and whilst many of its kind are
usually water down and limited versions
of their console counterparts broken
Destiny provides the full experience
with a few extras thrown in for good
measure when it comes to gameplay one of
the most appealing aspects of
soulcaliber is the extreme depth that it
serves up while it's relatively
accessible for new players and yes
button bashing will likely get you some
wins but if you truly want to Exel at
the game each character has an extensive
move list as well as several mechanics
that tie each match together there's a
total of 28 characters that are all
unlocked from the beginning with each of
them possessing their own unique weapons
and style from Heavy Hitters like
nightmare to the quick and Nimble
Fighters like Maxi this bound to be one
that suit your approach to fighting
games and it's this diversity in the
cast that really helps broken Destiny
Excel One strange aspect of the game
though is that there isn't an arcade
mode which is pretty odd as many would
consider it as standard when it comes to
a fighting game much of the single
player experience appears to focus
around something known as The Gauntlet
mode which aims to teach you the basics
and slowly wraps up the difficulty with
special objectives in situations such as
having to fight your opponents with half
of your health or only being able to use
specific moves to take them down with
while the absence of an arcade mode is
disappointing there is no reason for any
PSP owner to ignore this title the sheer
quality of everything included is a huge
selling point not to mention the ability
to play as God of Wars kattos if you can
find it on a cheap then broken Destiny
is well worth giving a
go Dragon Ball Z is is no stranger to
the world of video games and with the
huge popularity of the PSP it was only a
matter of time until the series made its
way to the handeld shin budai is Loosely
based on The Rebirth of Fusion movie and
features about 20 characters from the
story that get to battle it out across a
selection of modes such as arcade as
well as a fleshed out Dragon Road story
that will likely satisfy both passing
and longtime fans of the source material
now when it comes to gameplay it shares
a lot with the games on the Home console
but it's a bit more simple with all of
your main attacks being assigned to two
buttons and when used in conjunction
with the directions on the d-pad even
more become available as you might
expect melee attacks can be easily mixed
into Combos and pressing both at once to
let you throw your opponent holding down
the block button put your character's G
the well time Taps on the Block can also
serve as a Dodge or even throw an energy
beam right back at your opponent what
makes Shin bai's gamep playay so unique
though is the ranged energy strikes
there's key meter in addition to your
normal life bar and controls the types
of energy strikes you can do during a
battle your key will naturally grow but
you can also rapidly charge it by
holding down the L button although doing
so will leave you very open to H your
energy attacks can range from a tiny
yellow Fireball to a Time stopping
screen filling nightmare depending on
how much key you have charged up and
it's here where the constant back and
forth during battle truly makes the game
come to life thanks to some great
visuals and action shim budai is a solid
3D fighter that is bound to satisfy fans
with the show and although it doesn't
really pack a lot of depth in the
systems that make up the gameplay it's
still an absolute blast to play
through powerstone collection brings
together both the first and second game
in the series that originally released
on the Dreamcast and presents them as
one package with extra content and new
ways to experience them the first Power
Stone appears to be a fairly typical and
somewhat simplistic fighting game there
are eight characters to choose from and
regardless of which one you choose they
move sets are all very similar you've
got your weak and strong attacks as well
as a throw and the ability to jump about
it does sound quite limiting but what
injects a t of Mayhem into each fight is
the use of weapons and various items
that litter the arena you can swing from
Poles pick up crates and boxes to throw
at enemies or open a chest to find
something special you've got melee
weapons like swords Hammers and staves
which are most effective when you're up
close and personal but you've also got
ranged weapons like pistols and
flamethrowers that can help out from a
distance then there is some truly insane
options like bombs a potion that change
your character into a giant and a soccer
ball that bounces around hitting
everything Insight however the most
distinctive mechanic of the game is also
the one that gives it its name power
stones are large colorful gems that
randomly spawn during a fight and once a
character collects three of them they
transform into a super powerful vision
of themselves with attacks that can home
in on their opponent all of these
elements combined to create a very fast
and furious style of play and you'll
constantly be jumping around the arena
trying to grab a weapon before your
opponent and struggling to maintain some
semblance of a Power Balance by making
sure they don't get their hands on a
power stone for those who have not
played it in the arcade or on the
Dreamcast Power Stone Collection is
definitely worth seeking out and adding
to your
[Music]
library Death Jam the Takeover is an
updated version of the Home console
release that brings together a rather
strange mixture of fighting wrestling
and Hip-Hop that provides an in-depth
combat system to get the grips with for
those not familiar with Death Jam the
main premise of the series is that New
York is secretly run by various street
fighting gangs with these different
Brawlers fighting it out in arenas
throughout the five burrows to win money
and respect you take on the part of a
nameless up andc coming Fu brought into
the world of underground street fighting
after rescuing one of the game's
characters from certain death once
you're in you're given the opportunity
to create your character and set up to
take over the city for a series of
fights that see you coming face to face
face with the ls of Snoop Dog and Buster
rhymes like the Death Jam games before
it the Takeover implements a vision of
the old wrestling game engine from the
lck of Wrestlemania 2000 on the N64 and
sees each character having a choice of
up to five different styles you've got
wrestling submissions kickboxing martial
arts and street fighting and when you
start out you can only use one but over
time you slowly earn training points
which can be used to unlock aspects of
the other styles to implement them into
your own combining these new moves
fundamentally changes the Dynamic of how
your character plays as well as what
moves he uses you might start out by
relying heavily on grappling techniques
but once you toss in kickboxing for
example it allows you to mix up your
approach and attack from a distance with
combos that eventually set up a grapple
for submission because of this the game
feels like it's constantly changing and
it's more than enough to keep even the
most proficient fighting fan on their
toes as they make their way through to
the end overall if you're a fan of
fighting games then death Jam's unique
setup and gameplay is something you
definitely shouldn't miss out
on accent core Plus is an enhanced
version of the original accent core and
the fifth iteration of gila gear XX it
introduced a number of alterations
including completely re-recorded
voiceovers a new character artwork but
kept the Stella gameplay intact and
tweaked it to help iron out some of the
balance issues that played the previous
entries from a gameplay perspective the
combat is lightning fast busy and
tactical it utilizes a four button setup
consisting of a Punch Kick slash and
heavy slash and on top of the
traditional commands if you press
combinations of the four buttons even
more abilities can be accessed such as
throws en counters of course as with
many fighting games there's also the
ability to perform super moves which is
powered by something known as the
tension gauge allowing you to unleash
devastating attacks as well as instant
Kos and because of this the tide of a
fight can turn in the blink of a night
as you would expect there's a generous
selection of modes to play across with
the best example being the story mode
every fighter has some sort of visual
novel text driven Adventure that has the
characters crossing paths with each
other and usually resulting in a fight
another is survival mode that sees you
beating the crap out of your opponents
and collecting medals which are dropped
by your Fallen foes that increase your
overall high score but that's not all
you've got a Attack Mode as well as my
personal favorite being the sound mode
which allows you to listen to one of the
many songs that make up the soundtrack
and nearly all of them are absolute
bangers with some of the best 2D
fighting gameplay on the PSP as as well
as a nonon endless amount of content to
make your way through accent core Plus
is for sure one fighting game you do not
want to
miss ever since its first entry way back
in the early '90s Mortal Kombat has
always prided itself on its extreme
dedication to violence and Unchained on
the PSP saw this tradition continue very
much like other titles in the franchise
you presented with a huge selection of
characters to contend with and play
across several modes that make up the
game as a whole is essentially a version
of Mortal Kombat deception on the go
with all of the content including the
pretty robust RPG Conquest mode that
makes this entry so appealing what sets
Mortal Kombat and chain apart from all
of the other 3D fighting games is that
each of the 30 characters have three
distinct fighting styles including one
that gives your character a weapon that
they can use for maximum amounts of
damage whenever you need to change up
your moves all you need to do is push
the left trigger and this Cycles you
through the three unique Styles mixing
them up on the and creating combos is
half of the fun and for those that take
their time in mastering the intricacies
of each of them it soon becomes one of
the more rewarding fighting games on the
handheld adding to each fight is the
incredible stage design that takes many
cues from the legs of Devil May Cry and
allows the player to use it to their
advantage from knocking your opponents
off roofs to breaking through walls and
much more it becomes a huge part of the
basic game play of course fatalities are
also one of the main features of the
game that more than justify its mature
rating from the hilarious to the
downright gruesome is bound to be one
that puts a stupid grin on your face
while it's not the best 3D fighting game
on the PSP Mortal Kombat and chain is a
great division to what is already out
there the tail series is well known for
the many RPGs that it's produced and as
with most popular franchises there's
always a spin-off or two that takes the
game into Uncharted Territory this is
the case with tals of vces which is
basically a fighting game that takes the
combat system used many entries of the
series and allows you to battle it out
across a range of different stages using
a cast of characters from The Game's
history if you've ever played a Tales
game before each battle will feel very
familiar with all of them being fought
on a 2d plane where characters have
their own regular attacks as well as a
range of special moves known as Arts
that helps bicep the gameplay it takes
many cues from the likes of Super Smash
Bros and adds platforming elements into
each fight that adds a great amount of
variety to each stage and opens up
different strategies as you fight to
come out on top further mixing of the
gam play is the inclusion of several
items that litter the battlefield and
can help give you the upper hand on your
opponent from increased damage to bouts
of invincibility all of them have a role
to play but thankfully there is an
option to turn them off and solely rely
on your skill instead along with the
standard tournament mode in Story You've
got several other ways to play the game
with my personal favorite being special
battles which give you an interesting
set of circumstances for each fight and
you have to win the battle with these
rules to take after some of its RPG
routs characters do level up in this
game but not in a usual sense each of
them has an amount of GP that can be
earned over the course of the game and
this is what you use to increase your
stats as well as unlock new special
moves and items that can be used to
increase your chances of success it's a
solid system that really helps add some
replay value to the overall package
making it one of the more engrossing
fighting games you'll find on the
PSP Street Fighter Alpha 3 has seen
numerous releases across several
different consoles from the Sega Saturn
to the PS1 and Game Boy Advance and it
would eventually make its way to the PSP
which was based upon the updated arcade
version with new characters and features
much like any other game in the series
Alpha 3 Max takes the tried and tested
formula the series is well known for and
throws you into one of several modes to
test your skills you've got the standard
six button setup with low to high kicks
and punches as well as several unique
special moves that each character can
call their own what helps mix up the
minute to- minute gameplay however is
something known as the ism feature there
are three isms in total which you get to
choose at the beginning of each fight
and they all play out differently
depending on which one you choose you've
got the strong but slow aism as well as
the weak but fast V ISM with aism being
a sort of happy medium between the three
your ability to do super combos changes
between isms as well in aism you get the
standard three levels of super combos
whereas with X you only get one powerful
super super combo and finally in V you
forgo your super combos for custom
combos instead because of this mastering
one character in a specific style
doesn't mean you'll be able to transfer
that knowledge to another and adds a lot
of replay value as a result the main
thing Alpha 3 Max has going for it
though is the world tour mode that sees
you traveling the world and slowly
improving your character through some
light RPG elements that complement the
gaml is you when fight you'll accumulate
currency and then get the opportunity to
spend it on various improvements such as
auto air blocks or increasing your
amount of energy for super attacks
overall Alpha 3 Max is by far the best
example of a Street Fighter game in the
palm of your
[Music]
hands the cidia 12 is basically an
updated version of the original game on
the PSP that brought along with it
several changes and improvements to make
it the best out of the two available it
serves as the prequel to the first game
and follows two Gods who have summoned
Warriors from different worlds to wage
battle in a clash of light vers versus
dark as you would expect these Warriors
are made up of different characters from
The Final Fantasy Universe such as Cloud
Tifa lightning and Squall who all have
their own unique attacks and special
moves to master large open areas are
used for each battle with two fighters
engaging in one-on-one combat and whilst
you're doing so there are two main
factors you need to keep in mind the
first is your bravery value and the
second being your hit points bravery
attacks add to your overall bravery
amount while deducting from your
opponents and when you land a h P attack
the more damage you cause is determined
on your point total the majority of
fights are exciting dances in which you
and your adversary trade range blows
slip around obstacles and then strike at
the appropriate moment to land a few
well-placed hits complimenting all of
this is the return of EX assaults that
stop the action and Trigger QuickTime
events that not only deal a lot of
damage but also highlight the game's
amazing visuals of course no fighting
game would be complete without a
multiplayer mode and this is where de
cidia 12 shines there is no substitute
to competing against a human player who
may be on the same skill level as you
and with the amount of options at your
fingertips with this cidia this is by
far the best way to play and test your
knowledge of the systems in play overall
if you're fond of Final Fantasy then
this one is a bit of a no-brainer but
even for casual fans that may not be
familiar with the series there's still
plenty here to
love whenever you think about fighting
games there's no doubt that Tekken is
one series that inst L comes to mind
starting out life in the arcades and
eventually moving on to the original
PlayStation it cemented itself as one of
the most prominent franchises in the
space which is going just as strong to
this day even though there were a few
releases on the PSP Tekken 6 has to be
the best of the bunch which managed to
retain nearly every aspect of its Home
console counterpart and resulted in what
is likely the best fighting game on the
system much like the other games in the
series you get to choose from a range of
different fighters who all come with
their own unique move sets and styles
this allows you to experiment with the
various pros and cons of each and
eventually settle on one that suits you
best the setup is pretty much identical
to previous entries and is comprised of
four attack buttons and several
mechanics that make each encounter all
the more engaging the main one is
something known as The Rage system that
sees your attacks getting a small boost
in damage if your life is too low and
can mean the difference between Victory
or defeat when you're in a tight spots
on top of this you've got the sort of
rock paper scissors approach to the
counter system known as Crush which sees
you being able to cancel out moves from
your opponent in the right circumstances
now what really helps Tekken six on the
PSP hit it out of the park is the visual
makeup of the game that looks absolutely
spectacular running on the small screen
of course a few compromises were made
when compared to its bigger brother on
consoles but each and every character is
represented incredibly well with a suite
of smooth animations and a solid frame
rate to back it all up if you're looking
to get into a fighting game on the PSP
then look no further than Tekken six
well that does it for today's video keep
an eye out for part two as that will be
coming up soon so don't forget to
subscribe and hit that Bell to get
notified about new videos you can follow
me on all of the socials which are
linked below to stay up to date and also
join my growing community on Discord to
meet many like-minded gamers to continue
the conversation with I'd like to give a
special shout out to all of my patreon
supporters which are on screen now for
their continued support that helps make
these videos possible if you're
interested in joining my Discord or
supporting the channel through patreon
you'll find all of these links below as
always thanks for taking the time to
check the video out I'll catch you next
[Music]
time